[Framework guide] Add VitePress (#14290)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/framework-guides/deploy-a-vitepress-site.md

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Deploy a VitePress site
---

# Deploy a VitePress site

> [VitePress](https://vitepress.dev/) is a [Static Site Generator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Static_site_generator) (SSG) designed for building fast, content-centric websites. VitePress takes your source content written in [Markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown), applies a theme to it, and generates static HTML pages that can be easily deployed anywhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[VitePress](https://vitepress.dev/) is a [static site generator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Static_site_generator) (SSG) designed for building fast, content-centric websites. VitePress takes your source content written in [Markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown), applies a theme to it, and generates static HTML pages that can be easily deployed anywhere.
```

In this guide, you will create a new VitePress project and deploy it using Cloudflare Pages.

> ## Install VitePress

Reviewer 2: I ran through the guide as is an hit a bit of an issue. Not sure if the best place to fix it is in these docs or in the `vitepress init` command.

If you follow the guide exactly, you'll end up with a directory that contains a `package.json` containing only the following:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "docs:dev": "vitepress dev",
    "docs:build": "vitepress build",
    "docs:preview": "vitepress preview"
  }
}
```

Note that there's no declared dependency on `vitepress`. This means that if you then immediately run `npm run docs:dev`, the command fails since it can't find `vitepress`. I'm guessing it would have worked had I installed `vitepress` as a global, but the guide doesn't really indicate I should do that.

To fix, I would either update `vitepress init` so that it declares the desired version of `vitepress` as a dependency, or I'd swap the order of this instruction so that it tells users to install `vitepress` only after they've run the `npx vitepress init` command.

Other than that LGTM.

{{</Aside>}}

## Set up a new project

VitePress ships with a command line setup wizard that will help you scaffold a basic project.

{{<tabs labels="npm | pnpm | yarn | bun">}}
{{<tab label="npm" default="true">}}

```sh
$ npx vitepress init
```
{{</tab>}}
{{<tab label="pnpm">}}

```sh
$ pnpm vitepress init
```
{{</tab>}}
{{<tab label="yarn">}}

```sh
$ yarn vitepress init
```
{{</tab>}}
{{<tab label="bun">}}

```sh
$ bun vitepress init
```
{{</tab>}}
{{</tabs>}}

{{<render file="_tutorials-before-you-start.md">}}

{{<render file="/_framework-guides/_create-github-repository.md">}}

## Deploy with Cloudflare Pages

To deploy your site to Pages:

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/) and select your account.
2. In Account Home, select **Workers & Pages** > **Create application** > **Pages** > **Connect to Git**.
3. Select the new GitHub repository that you created and, in the **Set up builds and deployments** section, the following information will be provided:

{{<pages-build-preset framework="vitepress">}}

> After configuring your site, you can begin your first deploy. You should see Cloudflare Pages installing `vitepress`, your project dependencies, and building your site, before deploying it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After configuring your site, you can begin your first deploy. Cloudflare Pages will install `vitepress`, your project dependencies, and build your site, before deploying it.
```
I would avoid "you should see".

{{<Aside type="note">}}

For the complete guide to deploying your first site to Cloudflare Pages, refer to the [Get started guide](/pages/get-started/).

{{</Aside>}}

> After deploying your site, you will receive a unique subdomain for your project on `*.pages.dev`. Every time you commit new code to your VitePress project, Cloudflare Pages will automatically rebuild your project and deploy it. You will also get access to [preview deployments](/pages/configuration/preview-deployments/) on new pull requests, so you can preview how changes to your site look before deploying them to production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After deploying your site, you will receive a unique subdomain for your project on `*.pages.dev`. Every time you commit and push new code to your VitePress project, Cloudflare Pages will automatically rebuild your project and deploy it. You will also get access to [preview deployments](/pages/configuration/preview-deployments/) on new pull requests, so you can preview how changes to your site look before deploying them to production.
```
